# 20240221

# title 节奏和韵律

# chinese 

节奏从本质上来讲是轻重缓急和适当停顿所决定的；而韵律是由音高和起伏所决定的。
节奏上出人意料的变化有将长元音和双元音读成更短的版本，很多辅音没有清楚的发音，很多实际存在的微妙停顿、可能在某些辅音之后加入了原本不存在的元音、常见的加音确实际上缺席了等等这种节奏上的变化最影响识别，而且经常说的语速不同主要不是慢了而是快了。

# english
"Essentially, rhythm is determined by stress, speed, and appropriate pauses, while prosody is dictated by pitch and fluctuations.Unexpected variations in rhythm can include shortening long vowels and diphthongs, many consonants not being clearly pronounced, subtle pauses that actually exist, the addition of vowels after certain consonants where they don't originally belong, and common sounds that are actually absent. These rhythmic changes most significantly affect recognition, and the commonly referred to difference in speaking rate is not so much about being slower but rather faster."

/
ɪˈsɛnʃəli, ˈrɪðəm ɪz dɪˈtɜrmɪnd baɪ strɛs, spid, ænd əˈproʊpriɪt ˈpɔzəz, wɑɪl ˈproʊsədi ɪz ˈdɪktətəd baɪ pɪʧ ænd ˌflʌkʃuˈeʃənz. 

ˌʌnɪkˈspɛktɪd ˌvɛriˈeʃənz ɪn ˈrɪðəm kæn ɪnˈklud ˈʃɔrtənɪŋ ˈlɔŋ ˈvoʊəlz ænd ˈdɪfθɔŋz, ˈmɛni ˈkɑnsənənts nɑt biːɪŋ ˈklɪrli prəˈnaʊnst, ˈsʌtl ˈpɔzəz ðæt ˈækʧuəli ɪɡˈzɪst, ðə əˈdɪʃən ʌv ˈvoʊəlz ˈæftər ˈsɜrtn̩ ˈkɑnsənənts ˈwɛr ðeɪ doʊnt əˈrɪdʒənəli bɪˈlɔŋ, ænd ˈkɑmən ˈsaʊndz ðæt ɑr ˈækʧuəli ˈæbsənt. 

ðiz ˈrɪðmɪk ˈʧeɪndʒɪz moʊst ˈsɪɡnɪfɪkəntli əˈfɛkt ˌrɛkəɡˈnɪʃən, ænd ðə ˈkɑmənli rɪˈfɜrd tuː ˈdɪfərəns ɪn ˈspikɪŋ reɪt ɪz nɑt soʊ mʌtʃ əˈbaʊt biːɪŋ ˈsloʊər bʌt ˈræðər ˈfæstər./

dictated by：由……决定/主导：受……支配或控制，由某种因素或情况决定或主导。
fluctuation  ˌflʌktʃuˈeɪʃn / 波动，起伏
break: Essentially|, rhythm is determined by |stress, speed, and appropriate pauses|, while prosody is dictated by pitch and fluctuations.
stress : E*ssentially, rhythm is de*termined by stress, speed, and a*ppropriate *pauses, while prosody is *dictated by pitch and fluctu*ations.

diphthong / ˈdɪfθɔːŋˌˈdɪpθɔːŋ / n.  复合元音，双元音（如main中的元音）；二合元音字母（如在feat中）；
subtle / ˈsʌt(ə)l / adj.  不易察觉的，微妙的；敏锐的，有洞察力的；灵活的，巧妙的；含蓄的，隐晦的；<

break: Un|expected variations |in rhythm can include|shortening long vowels and diphthongs,| many consonants |not being clearly pronounced|, subtle pauses |that actually exist|, the addition of vowels |after certain consonants| where they don't originally belong|, and common sounds| that are actually absent.
pitch: Unexpected variations in rhythm can include shortening long vowels and diphthongs, *many consonants not being *clearly pronounced, *subtle pauses that actually exist, the *addition of *vowels after certain *consonants where they don't originally belong, and *common sounds that are actually absent.

break: These rhythmic changes| most significantly affect recognition|, and the commonly referred to difference| in speaking rate| is not so much about being slower| but rather faster|.
pitch: These *rhythmic changes most significan*tly affect recog*nition, and the com*monly referred to difference in spe*aking rate is not so much about being slower b*ut rather faster.
stress: These rhythmic changes most significantly affect recognition, and the commonly referred to difference in speaking rate is not so much about being slower but rather faster.
